---
categories:
- philosophy
date: 2017-05-12T13:17:26+02:00
tags:
- 'Aryan migration'
- 'Racial superiority'
title: Racial migration 
---

Did Aryans invade India, did they migrate to India or did they originate in India and travelled to illuminate the rest of the world? - A very debate topic among linguists, historians and archeologists alike. Here is my verdict on this debate: It shouldn't matter. 

This question about the origin of Aryans, like many similar historical origin puzzles elsewhere in the world is a deeply emotional one. The emotion rises out of a number of failures we face as a population. Everytime we witness our civic failure to nurture ourselves, we hunt for the cause. Corruption, lethargy, lack of confidence, fear etc have all contributed to our shortcomings. But where do these less than ideal traits originate in us? This causation hunt becomes our pursuit. There are countless spiritual manuals available to us in the form of the Upanishads, vedas and even the bibles of other religions. If one can discrimiate among the ideas in these scriptures, we often end up in an advice for an action with a certain attitude or a selfless practise. While we enforce and expect these actions out of others, our own attempt to practise these challenging pursuits is , well, challenging! 


We then resort to the material ideas in these books. The material ideas in scriptures, like character and scene descriptions in a novel, serve to give credibility and depth to the idea. The valor and intelligence of a certain race as described in the scriptures therefore capture our imagination. We wonder where that supriority vanished. For some the invaders are and explanation. In essence we look for a source of confidence from what we as a race (whatever race it is) achieved in the past and seek that source for the present day's needs. Going to one's roots is definitely a humble pursuit. However, we must understand the success of our ancestors is also a material detail that resulted from a certain way of life which had its limitations. What is inescapable in looking back is another question- by race do we mean a genetic superiority of thought. 

Racially we are different in appearance. We are aware of the genetic sequence which determine physical traits at birth of a person. There is no evidence that the emotional personality of a person can be classified corresponding to the physical traits. In the past, there were races that attributed barabric traits to darker skins and intelligence to fairer skin. We very well know that these were fabricated to fit theories and to serve needs of different groups. Even if we were to find a pattern in the psyche of people according to their races, what is at birth is only a part of a person's personality. As mentioned in the Gita, people fall into emtional categories based on Guna and Karma (an often neglected second line following Krishna's statement that people fall into four categories). While guna translates as what is found at birth invariably attributed to the genes, and karma translates as the action the person performs as he evolves influencing his personality. Therefore is quite possible that a race had a glorious past only owing to the conduct of its people. Which implies that any race has the equal opportunity to glory. I have built up my argument to how a race's superiority may not have anything to do with the race itself and may have more to do with their individual ideologies and sticking to it. One important question remains to be answered then. 

Isn't it important to set the history straight for the truths about a race to be recognized? When everyone else wants a story pushed, isn't it important to be the opposing force to set history straight simply for the sake of truth? And if one race's ideologies are indeed better for today's humanity than the others, it is important for that ideology to be available to be studied. May be the truth in the migration of races will help bring attention to forgotten spiritual thoughts. Then isn't it important that the direction of migration should matter to us? It is when it doesn't matter to us, when one or the other direction doesn't instigate us emotionally, that is when truth would emerge. Like I said, it 'shouldn't' matter what was the direction of human migration. Our job is to investigate with open mind when we can, and learn to live ready to accept an evolution when it presents itself, no matter its roots.      
